--- 
layout: post
title: Mining in EVE Online And Cargo Containers
wordpress_id: "62"
wordpress_url: http://geeklob.wordpress.com/2008/01/01/mining-in-eve-online-and-cargo-containers/
categories: games
tags: [games]
---
<p style="text-indent:20pt;">Well, this morning I played eve online. i managed to make about 150,000 ISK (InterStellar Kredits). At this rate, i should have enough for a strip miner (1.5 mil ISK) in about 10 days. by that time, i should have a hauler (iteron class probably)  and a lot of ISK. from there, i don't know. maybe a battle ship? or an exHummer? who knows.</p><p style="text-indent:40pt;">I also experimented with cargo containers today. a cargo container is a box that holds thing and hangs in space. i have 2 that i used tor ore deposit and collection. this increases my output per cycle, but it also increases time per cycle. that means that it takes longer to make the money than normal. but, seeing as i sell off all my ore when i log off, that really isn't a problem. here is the workflow for maximum ore output</p><ol>	<li>depart from station with cargo containers empty.</li>	<li>warp to astroid field.</li>	<li>chooses astroid patch for day and start mining.</li>	<li>when you have a small amount of ore, jettison the a cargo container and deposit ore into container.</li>	<li>repeat step 4 until cargo containers are full and cargo hold is full</li>	<li>warp to home base (the station where all your stuff is)</li>	<li>deposit ore in cargo hold into station hold.</li>	<li>go back to astroid field and collect ore in cargo containers (floating in space)</li>	<li>mine more ore in there is space left over in cargo hold</li>	<li>warp back home base and deposit ore</li>	<li>repeat steps 8, 9, and 10 until cargo containers are empty</li>	<li>repeat steps 2 through 11 until you have enough ore or you have to log off.</li>	<li>warp to astroid belt. pick up empty cargo containers.</li>	<li>mine for ore until all space is filled (this is so that no empty space is wasted)</li>	<li>warp back to home base and deposit ore and containers</li>	<li>repeat steps 13 through 15 until all cargo containers are back at Home Base.</li>	<li>stack all the ore into a single stack.</li>	<li>from there, you can sell it, reprocess it, "ore" put it to use in a project</li></ol>that is how i mine ore with cargo containers in EVE online. you can see these steps here. Have Fun!-Indigo
