--- 
layout: post
title: Acer updates
wordpress_id: "147"
wordpress_url: http://geeklob.wordpress.com/?p=147
categories: linux
tags: [stupid, linux]
---
This long story starts with me noticing that my one and only external drive had a USB connection. I had previously though connected this drive to computers other that macs was impossible, but I now realize that was wrong. So I plug the hard drive into my Acer laptop, and it borks. After fiddling around with various hfs packages for linux, things didn't work, and I tried plugging it into my mac. This did not work. I was bummed, because I had a massive collection of linux distributions stored on the drive. I tried various methods to recover the data, all failed, or didn't work correctly, so I finally reformatted the thing as ext2. This worked perfectly. Now the acer and all my other linux boxes can read the drive. My mac cannot. So, I installed MacFuse, along with a ext2 driver. I started a backup, and it was taking forever. Throughput for the drive was horrible. So I tried it on the Acer, and i/o speeds were just fine. So I used scp to copy the files from my mac, over the network, and to the external drive. Everything went well until /bin/echo started failing to execute. Turns out I was copying the entirety of my mac's hard drive to my acer. This did not work well, and the acer stopped working. I booted a liveCD, backed up my stuff to the external drive, then downloaded and burned a flash drive of the Ubuntu Minimal install. I used it to install a base ubuntu system, a few packages, and the xubuntu-desktop. I tried to install some ubuntu studio packages, but they didn't work, nor did the packages for audio, video, and image editing. They installed, I booted, and suddenly everything worked, my wifi autodetected, and everything was hunky dory. I moved all my important stuff to a single folder in my home folder called "mine," to facilitate backup and recovery, because there were some permissions issues the first attempted install. Still, everything works just fine, and the computer is working perfectly, except dropbox isn't installing, I have to fix that at some point...
